Dr. John Barsler.
Congratulations on your new book.
Thank you.
And are you starting your tour now?
I was in Washington last week.
I enjoyed that.
Well, that must have been interesting, isn't it?
I was staying with Sheridan there, too, and that's right down from the White House, one of the reasons I wanted to stay.
And on Tuesday night, thanks.
There was a fundraiser.
The DMT ran a fundraiser.
The hotel was practically empty, except for all the sub-army of very professional young men and women with clothes that were totally inappropriate in their age group showed up and filled the hotel, and they were down to the Stairmaster that morning to see what was going on.
And somebody told me, and of course there wasn't any attention, because I was out doing publicity and seeing people.
And that night I walked in the hotel about 6.30,
filled with police and secret service.
In the ballroom was a fundraiser for Kathleen Brown, and the president was due for about 20 minutes.
So I'm standing there.
I went into the lounge area to read the papers and relax.
It was once again a phenomenon of all the businessmen being driven into the lounge while the DNC takes over the lobby and the ballroom.
And I saw the DNP dragging around, and I was reminded that this is a business.
And that it pays okay, but it's far more demanding than it pays.
And that it attracts eager, idealistic, and mobile folks, young folks.
Many of whom may or may not have been married.
They all look young enough not to be married.
And then the figureheads, the ones we see on television, are just part of the background of what's actually going on.
I mean, the number of people moving things around and making events and getting in and out of buildings.
And so that was in 20 minutes.
The president had just poked down.
What did he do when he arrived?
I'm sitting in the lounge for this.
And they had the suit of service went through and made sure we were guest on this.
So that, you know, the show didn't look good about that.
I think it was all the time to guest on this.
And he walked in and I was pleased to see that it was all in court.
Ceremony.
Hi.
Okay, Rebecca.
So anyway, I was pleased and a refund given what the book's about.
Sure.
To see the ceremony.
Ceremony.
The traffic.
Nothing like the traffic on the street in New York.
Nothing like the traffic at the wall door or at the Sheraton in New York when corporates sleep in and corporates sleep out.
Nothing like that at all.
More showy, more standoffish, more audience audience.
How would they be responding to the book in Washington that's making some sense of story?
The folk I know who read it, there were a couple people who came up to me about this.
They're really sincere.
And they said, you know, this is really exciting.
It's a good book.
And I kept saying, well, it's true.
It's true.
And that didn't seem to matter.
It didn't seem to, what didn't seem to matter?
They weren't asking that question.
Oh, I see.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
It was, I've created a world entirely out of air and made
public institution and a public building as the newspapers do not allow it to be.
And what I think now is that I've put into the White House the I've been calling it the vocabulary of crisis that we've developed in the media and in the movies.
But also in the vocabulary of soap opera.
And that, in talking about the presidency in that fashion, I'm not demathologizing, I'm nephologizing.
And the newspapers are filled with demathologizing.
The columnists are demathologizing.
That's their job.
You left it to take another text.
Well, it turned out that way because that's what fiction does.
You didn't do this mightfully then.
It turns out to be...
I'm discovering it.
You write the book, and you start to think about it.
And it turns out to be one of the facts that if you, that having mythologized the presidency and the Constitution, I mythologize the Constitution, it's glamorous enough for those who do it that it becomes exciting.
They don't ask the question, is it true?
Some folks have responded, the constitutional scholars who I'm now meeting,
corresponding with, or talking to you on the telephone, have responded in a similar fashion in that they know at the heart of this is a serious discussion.
I'm popular, so that they all go along.
I think this is the worst case scenario.
But the worst case scenario is...
It has resonance.
It isn't.
I was prepared to confront folks saying this is too far faster.
Well, at the Constitutional College, the whole new scheme of time, do they acknowledge this is a scenario or could it play out?
Very easily.
It, in fact, is what they've not been able to do, which is to fill out the stories.
They've been stuck on four paragraphs.
Paragraph one, when the presidency is open, the vice president becomes president.
That's obvious.
It's happening.
Paragraph two, when the vice president is open, you appoint a new vice president.
That's happening.
Ford and Rockefeller.
Paragraph three and paragraph four that have never worked, never going to act to work, have been run from.
And the scholars get stuck on three, which is the temporary transfer of power.
under what conditions, and who says so, and how long.
And a little bit on four, what if the president's not competence, how do we challenge him?
He judges competency.
What they've not been able to do, because that's not how scholarship or history works, the newspaper's guys work, is to take those elements into what a fiction writer can do, turn it into a drama of verisimilitude.
Thank you.
I haven't used that word in the computer or in newspapers in a long time.
Well, it's a wonderful word.
It's a wonderful word.
Very similar.
No, I know the word.
No, I mean, whenever I use it, people go like this.
It's very similar.
For a 12.6 pica column, I mean, it takes up half a line in its own right.
Well, that's what apologizing does is verisimilitude.
This is not a debunking of the institution and the Constitution.
this is a mythologizing of it.
And that has weight for those who actually get down in there and try to change the Constitution.
Now you have, pardon me, you have gained some celebrity from getting somewhat prophetic in several different levels.
When you said about coming up with this premise and
fleshing a novel around this skeleton here.
Is it pure entertainment in what you were doing in this particular case?
Were you actually positing something that you think is a likelihood?
I was looking for the end of the story.
Having Ken's monitor come across it.
Once I got the idea, I said, what if?
Did you have the ending with when you started?
No.
That's why I think I can safely say I defy anyone to get the ending of this book because I didn't know the ending.
That's great.
As we speak, I haven't finished it.
You cannot predict it because what happened is the author got in there and the characters took over and they tricked me.
They dumped me.
The Constitution had to dump me.
I was trying to find the idea of the story.
What I think is going on here, what I think is going on here is that I've discovered that there's a problem, a big problem with the Constitution.
It's a time bomb.
And I've made it bigger than life to make sure that everybody gets to the point that if you don't think it's possible, then it shouldn't be in the Constitution anymore.
The fact that it's there means it's possible.
And if you think that we take care of it, then you haven't looked recently at what happened when this country goes into the crisis model.
If you think it's improbable that one president would be ill and the vice president would challenge his competence to rule,
You haven't checked.
Well, I mean, you talk about what-ifs.
Reagan never knew what he was having for lunch each day.
Well, there are prejudices and there are anecdotes for the last 27 years.
This is ratified in 67.
Again and again, you can use these anecdotes as a way of saying common sense and crisis approach the mechanism in the 25th and pull back from it.
Approach it and pull back from it.
Point.
19...
uh, 74th of July, the last week of the Nixon administration, the chief of staff paid... Acts in a way that later he's given credit for, to, uh, disconnect
the president from his role of commander-in-chief.
Well, that's 82.
I'm talking about 74 when he was chief of staff.
Right, secretary of state.
He's involved in two instances.
The first one is more interesting because it's involved in the military, which is what my book involves.
He disconnects the commander-in-chief during the Cold War, during the young war crisis, during fresh after
confrontational lunacy during the Soviet state terrorism, he disconnects the commander-in-chief from the mechanism.
In other words, the football is taken out of the camp for the last week of July and the beginning of August.
That mechanism, that is the mechanism of the 25th, and Hague pulled back from it with the collusion, according to his own testimony, of the Pentagon.
Not transferring power, however.
The staff held the power.
They were fearful that he was going to do something bad, isn't that correct?
The 25th is written to provide the mechanism so that when the vice president, who is the only person who has the power,
comes to the conclusion that the president is not to be trusted.
The vice president challenges and takes away that power immediately.
It is his or her duty.
But instead, we have the chief of staff, not elected, former army general, former commander of the forces in Europe, taking that mechanism away and giving it to no one, keeping it in the staff.
The point that I make is that presidents aren't men or women.
They're 1,000-member staff.
and 1,000 member staff do not see power easily.
Was this the incident?
Was this book inspired by an incident?
No, that is one of the activities that I was thinking about when I constructed the military and White House collusion.
Another incident that I was thinking of was Hague's famous I'm in Charge Here, Vermont, in 82.
Again, same character, 10 minutes later, learned nothing.
about succession of the mechanisms of the 25th.
At that point, anecdotal evidence afterwards, tested on by those in Reagan's entourage, they weren't thinking 25th.
They weren't even knowledgeable about it, so that the White House counsel, Fielding at the time, Fred Fielding, should have been carrying the papers with him, wasn't, nor did he have the letters to initiate the mechanisms of the 25th.
And Vice President Bush, who was in Texas and on a plane coming home, on Air Force Two coming home, should have been informed and transfer of power should have happened immediately upon collapse of the president.
That was how the 25th was written.
That is what it is meant to be.
Because it is not, indicates there's, is one of the strange ways to indicate there's a big problem with it.
There's common sense and the nature of power pulled back from it.
but it was constructed to be an automatic mechanism to provide continuity in times of catastrophe.
It's often said that the Constitution is the original document.
It's an inspiring document.
I gather you don't feel that those who framed the 25th Amendment were
or similarly inspiring that it is egregiously flawed.
I think in 1967, what we have to be, let's do what is, in seminary terms, is known as high history.
High history.
Let's put it in context.
In 1967, we're in the depths of the Cold War.
The 25th Amendment is a Cold War document.
It is an artifact of the necessity of constant
decision-making authority in the event of a catastrophe.
The Succession Act of 1947, which is the one that numbers the presidency all the way down to the least among them, the Department of Education, and then down further to now the... Madeleine Albright is now, I think, like 20th on the list.
That's the 1947 Succession Act, because she's now become a member of the Cabinet.
1947 Succession Act.
All right, now that's the Cold War.
Also, in 1967, they're living under the shadow of JFK's death.
Bobby Kennedy's in the Congress, and they're also remembering Eisenhower's collapse and heart attack in 58, and Richard Nixon's non-performance during those critical times when Eisenhower may or may not have been healthy enough to go on.
And it's the dark ages of mental health
I'm not saying we're in the light right now, but at least you can name the 60s and the dark ages.
There was no pharmacotherapy that was trustworthy.
And a person, a person mentally ill person, especially a person with clinical depression, was regarded as having a character flaw, a consequence of events, not understood.
There was no enlightened language understanding mental illness and illness, especially mental illness for entirely successful people.
Now, 27 years later,
To be fair, we're better educated.
We're more articulate.
We have a vocabulary that can handle mental illness.
The Cold War's over.
We also understand that communications and power are different than they were in 67, and that there's no hiding the facts.
Some of the scholars also debated in the 60s, when they debated this for three years in the Senate of Congress, the famous story of Edith Bolling Wilson,
and the White House physician colluding to conceal from, to have an inclination, the fact that Woodrow Wilson was in combat for the last 17, 18 months of his administration.
And that was often cited in the testimony as something we must guard against.
At the same time, there were moments in the testimony where you can see Bobby Kennedy, Senator Pejorie, thinking
I don't want this to be easy because, God damn it, what if that character LBJ tried to take it away from my brother?
What if my brother hadn't died?
That's right.
So that's why paragraph four is built so... What if he was brain dead, too?
They were thinking of gunshots and heart attacks.
They were not thinking of mental competence.
It's just a big problem.
Huge problem.
I started this book July 1st of last year.
Fourteen days later, Vince Foster is dead.
And all I read for days afterwards is the prejudice of the media.
Why did he kill himself?
We don't know.
The prejudice of the administration, the less than articulate remarks by his best friend, Clinton, about, I just talked to him last night, he gave no indication that he was a friend, or unhappy, or that this could have happened.
We weep for him.
All that wonderful consoling language, not articulate about the fact that mental illness, particularly clinical depression, comes to successful menopause.
And it comes out of denial so that there is no clue.
And that it's a crisis that must be dealt with before it gets to the illness stage.
It must be made, especially in command positions.
Thank you.
Did you read Siren's book on depression?
No, I didn't.
What I read was the... See, that's a testimony.
I was reading the monographs, because the monographs have accelerated, particularly after the introduction of Prozac.
The monographs have accelerated about denial and reformation and transformation.
And I'm only interested in one particular kind of illness, which is that which strikes
My president is a brave man, Teddy J. Because at the top of his powers, he recognizes things not there.
After his wife has left him, he perceives that with all the trappings of power around him, he perceives that he is ill and voluntarily steps himself, voluntarily hospitalizes himself.
I would say the science fiction aspect of this book is that
public is so converse is conversant enough to understand what the president is doing at that point and it is to his credit instead of understanding him as weak it is to his credit to understand that he's ill and he's taking care of himself because that is his duty um to go back to the question about how this 25th amendment was framed and then you answered during a period in which
the goal was to resolve a problem that seemed to be dated to that time whereas the framers of the constitution have always been credited with their their their by reaching uh their perception that this is really this has to have room to breathe and to expand and to and to adjust to a changing culture and society clearly this isn't what happened with the 25th it was really focused focused maybe that's what the floor is why it's not
I think you've said it very well.
What we have here is a codification of what wasn't broke, and that by trying to fix what wasn't broke, you invited the lawyers in.
In truth, and I'll pop this up, I'll give you the burning building talk.
The day the 25th Amendment is invoked, we are in a state of civil war.
Everybody has something to gain, something to lose at.
Several things will happen.
And they're fun to think about.
Only because they're so lurid.
One of the most fun of when I was on the Stairmaster this morning, I was thinking of it because they had the Today Show on them, which I never see in New York because I'm too busy with the kids with babies.
That chair, Brian Gumbel's chair,
and across with him the chair of the correspondent, the book, the representation of the representative.
That chair will be fought over by two powerful propaganda machines.
One, the vice president with the powers of the White House.
Two, the president with the powers of the White House.
Both of those factions will be armed.
Who is Gumbel going to speak with?
Who is going to put who in that chair?
How do they decide the next morning?
Whose story gets told?
Civil war.
In the media, okay, another place.
We now have Shelley Fashbili dispatching the 24th Division to Iraq.
The 10th Mount is in here.
The fourth division, the fourth ID is on alert, standby all the time, pre-positioned equipment for Korea.
Who does Shalikashvili listen to the next morning?
82nd Airborne, right, boasted correctly that it is in condition, General Steele commanding, it is in condition and demonstrated during the Haitian episode to be wheeled up and ready to go.
and in the air, and going, and he's in plane number one, 18 hours after the order comes.
From whom?
To where?
Third.
A lot of faith involved here, isn't it?
That morning, Gambo, chair being fought over by armed characters.
Military.
What?
He said, what?
Who's telling us what?
To do when?
Third thing is going to happen.
About 90 minutes from when Gumbel's watching that chair being fought over, the market cannot open.
He can't find a price.
The Treasury bond overnight trading in Europe out of Hong Kong?
No bids.
That's part of the crisis.
In this book, my acting president understands that and uses it.
Understands that he only has so many hours to conduct this whole operation, otherwise there's not too much of a country left.
Do you formulate this over a period of time?
I'm putting together things that have already happened.
Yeah, I have to object with an effective...
Well, I just put myself in the place of how would we accelerate into this?
We've got a communications business, an information elite that are capable.
We are capable.
We're part of it.
We are capable of taking a story and really pumping it up, spinning it.
And this is the Constitution and presidential succession.
Lord knows there are no rules when it gets to that level.
None whatsoever.
Nobody's going to come in and referee.
There's no time.
You know, John, reading this book, I have to say I'm... I've written about your deciding, well, I can do this.
This is something that I can do.
I can't tell you how many authors I've interviewed over the years.
One in particular, Richard Gates, who was wonderful.
I loved it.
And I remember this poor guy lived in near poverty right up here in Boston, a couple blocks from here.
And I remember him saying, quote, if I knew how to write a bestseller, believe me, I would do it.
I just don't know how to do it.
I write only one way.
You, on the other hand, mindfully, apparently, if I read what I've read, decided, apparently, you decided to write something that would be accessible to the general readership to a wider audience.
Is that a fair representation of what happened here?
What I've really decided to do is change the case.
Dave Halberstam does about the same thing.
He does one big, fat, serious, non-fiction book, and then he does a little baseball book.
Dave Halberstam does a lot of baseball books.
I did not write this book to be non-serious.
What I did was I did a technical change, real technical.
This is craft talk.
Craft talk.
Which I love, by the way.
My pieces are generally craft talk.
All right, craft talk.
We'll do shop talk, craft talk.
It would be impossible for anyone to argue that someone like me, myself,
Someone could say, I'm going to set out to write a constitutional thriller, and everybody would just laugh.
Oh, that's a hoot.
And you're going to sell it, huh?
And so, I mean, let's have the lament here.
Yeah, this is the constitutional thriller.
It's a presidential thriller.
The thriller part, my people will go along with the constitutional thriller.
So I make craft adjustments.
At the center of this book, here are themes that I've always considered, which is a surprise for the name.
of all things, and that the vanity of power is it, is what the problem is.
The success of powerful man stops.
Those themes I've followed before, but having applied that Protestantism, the craft changes.
I wrote a book in what I've called already the vocabulary crisis.
I took it from the media and television.
Single sentence paragraphs is how we now get our news.
It is the lead in television language called soundbites.
But in newspapers, tabloids have now become serious discourse.
A single sentence paragraph is how you get the punchlines, the headlines, the readers.
Also, the other day I was sitting in New York talking to... But it's the vocabulary of crisis journalism.
It is not second-thinking journalism.
It is not there on the other hand.
It is now, now, now, now, now.
Characters in the book have...
ambition and they are all ambitious people nobody questions that there's no underlying theme of nobility here you keep going or you just fall away um there's no reservation as there was in the days of public discourse in this city uh sam adams the jameses of uh serving god and country of uh enhancing the power of the commonwealth
No, they're always in the attack mode.
Jack and Chief, a fugitive hero and heroine, are running for the presidency.
Occasionally they have doubts, but there's no time.
And their motive here is to save the president because they're going to run to the office next year.
They're not going to allow the stronger of the two to win because they're going to have to run against him next February.
They're going to undermine the stronger candidates.
Garland's clearly the stronger of the two men.
The more ruthless, because he's a better campaigner and he'd be tougher to beat.
All right, now.
Craft.
Single sentence paragraphs.
Short takes.
Not long enough to get hungry.
Move the camera.
Here, here, here, here.
So you're just thinking visually.
I was thinking visually, and I'm thinking how we get the news on.
Headline news.
CNN.
The rap.
20 minutes to get the world.
The way that editors link the stories.
What the order of things is always thematic.
They find a way of thematic.
It often is hilarious, or it's prejudicial, but it's thematic.
Has to be.
I don't have commercials to cut away to.
I don't have that.
So what I do is I have the frames.
And then I move the time to the temporal progression.
A cynic might think that you're also thinking of a cinematic.
Well, I was not because this is a wordcraft problem.
I have to do it entirely on the page.
No pictures allowed.
I have to make you think they're pictures.
I have to make you see pictures.
But I don't have any audio, nor do I have any fast-forward.
So that's why there's this other craft consideration.
I think the bestseller list is, now that I've looked at it, these books are
And the wrong way to read them is closely.
So I ask myself, how is this possible?
What is it that makes me comfortable?
And a large part of that is the celebrity business.
Well, no, I have a response to that.
I can hear the crap response.
What I've decided what we do is, in fact, we read the novels the way we want to read the novels.
Anne Rice or Sheldon or The Celestine Prophecy.
Anne Rice's books are 400 or 500 pages long.
What you do when you open that page is you only read a few sentences on the page.
You read for the story that you want to get out of it.
You read for the action or you follow a character.
You don't read her adverbs.
God knows you don't read her adverbs.
You don't let those cliches heap up.
You can't because it would just, it would animate you.
So that a very thick book turns out to be a very thin book.
And it reads quickly.
You keep flipping the pages.
The eye doesn't, the brain does it, depending on education, prejudice, and all that.
Are you giving the general reader perhaps a bit more credit than it deserves?
No, I think this is how we read.
I think this is how folk read.
What I then set out to do was to write a book that only controlled, only consistent of the lines your eyes skip to, thinking that that would speed it up, and it does.
You see how fast it reads.
I have to tell you, I read
I like those.
I read them just to enjoy.
And I love them.
And I consider myself knowledgeable on the subject.
And I have to tell you, I mean, this is no fluke.
You've got a nice job.
Talking is one who appreciates these books.
And I read them unashamedly, without apology.
I enjoy it.
You know, you've done a good job here.
You've got me.
I'm engaged.
I'm trying to throw garland in here.
A garland is the word for the Vice President's name.
There are lots of Dickensian ponds in here.
Throw the garland.
The garland wearer.
That's the big thing about why I chose this category.
The first reason, I love the category.
So, choose something as well.
And I love this category.
And I've always played with it.
I've just played with it in the confessional voice, the I accuse myself voice of literature.
This time, I decided to control that voice.
It's there.
It comes out every once in a while, but I control it.
What kind of a, and you don't mind my jumping around the board a little bit.
I'm the one who makes sense to say.
You've got it good, that opening scene.
That's meant to be.
That's meant to be the best book you've ever read.
I mean, I know, I know protocols, I know, I know language, you know, the ovaries and the elves, if it's appropriate, and, uh, you have it, you know, you have the Roger, oh, right, I'm saying, well, no, this should be a Roger, oh, no, wait a minute, he's expecting a response here, but, I mean, you did some work here to get this out.
Yeah, I tried, I, I, it's a vocabulary.
You can learn it.
Now, do you pick this up out of books?
Do you have technical advice?
Other books.
It's all in books.
It's all there.
And if you imitate the real thing, that's all you need to do.
My favorite line in the Three Days of the Marvel movie and the Six Days of the Car.
Six Days of the Car.
Well, the book is Six Days of the Car.
Life is through us.
And I don't need to go to much more than that.
They did have the additional help because the books themselves don't get into the blank.
They can't.
They did have the additional help.
I mean, I was able to read the naval proceedings about some of the attacks on Iraq, so you get some of the language that actually went on from the aircraft to the ship.
But my baby brother is a captain of the military, so that he went through what is or is not necessary in dealing with the procedures.
And I know from talking to him that you can just lose... I was losing things that are in the books that were not necessary.
I would read to them and say they're there.
And then I would change things, too, because I thought they were inappropriate.
For example, the radio, the man-packed transceiver that I call the horn.
I don't have them mic'd up.
I have them use real carry-around.
is called a prick in army parlance, because it's T-R-Q-35.
And I chose not to use that.
So I was making, I was backing off from the technical language when I thought that it was, it got in the way of going straight through.
It got in the way of cinema.
I was also using the technical way of cinema.
The cinematic flow.
I'm thinking of this.
I'm seeing it.
This is not what Hollywood does.
Hollywood storytelling is very different.
I think.
I think they tell the story differently than the story is told.
They don't have the control that I have.
And also they don't see and feel and smell the way I can do it seeing.
Smell is not possible in Hollywood.
And sounds
is not credible either, because there's always a domineering sound, and there's always a voice, and they must speak in sentences.
In a good American dictionary, that's not credible either.
So I would get into a scene, and I would have the raw detail, and I chose not to rewrite it in the confessional voice, which the literature teaches you.
So that's why, oftentimes, they're not even sentences.
The brief sentences are not complete.
They're frank.
That's the way I work.
I'm seeing data.
And I would just give it to you.
And then in the editing process, I would cut it in or take it out, depending on whether I thought it was my editing.
My editing.
Mine going over and over and over.
I depend on Alan for the big stuff of, I don't like this, I like this.
And then I'm supposed to figure out why.
Did he ever tell you, by the way, that...
No, I didn't know that part.
It was in the Clayton Plant Dealers.
no i think it was he didn't want to be at the women's telegram but now it started my engagement first uh my memory i think they do that that clothes thing that fool people that's a great book you might if i use it yeah
Have you ever seen them together in a row?
Let's go back now.
Let's pick up the thread here.
Where were we, do you remember?
Well, no, really, although we were talking about the tech of the craft.
I'll do the whole list again.
Changes that I felt we were making.
I wanted to go fast.
So I wrote a book that only has a line, but I think you skipped it.
I wrote it in the Caballet of Crisis, the tabloid, CNN, book cover.
I knew I was going to layer in the novel, so I was going to compensate for that by allowing you to come close and move back.
So what was this frightening for?
Was this like carpentry in this particular phase?
I like craft.
Yeah, I like craft.
I like to talk about craft.
I mean, I could probably put together an extremely tedious seminar that would be very well attended to talk about the craft of the pastel.
Yes, I was.
As I wrote it down, I would respond to it, saying, this is working.
Did you have a reader in mind?
Myself?
No, really, I was really trying to create something fast.
For yourself?
Just to see if it could be done.
To change my speed.
Change the speed of the long Peter Nevsky story, which is the Russian novel, the long paragraph.
Change the speed and change the tempo.
To move the reader in and out of scenes faster.
To only give you information that's critical.
To allow you to see the characters in action only.
Not in reflection, not in regret.
To layer the trail upon the trail and yet still have the moving towards an end point.
Tricks, not tricks, crack decisions.
Primary characters are going to be called by their first names.
Villains or secondary characters are going to be called by their lessons.
All thinking, when the thinking was critical to moving the story, particularly when it's a put in a straw, it's going to be an eye cap.
So your eye won't.
will go to her as if it was dialogue.
The dialogue would be as quick as possible so that I would not use the lead into the conversation or the lead out of, just the center of it.
And then describe that before and after so that you don't miss the point of the reason.
You get it.
The cutaway.
is a television technique, not a film technique.
Bang, bang, bang, television.
It's a CNN technique, too.
Not CBS.
CBS did not develop this vocabulary, except for television did not.
The half an hour news jolt with commercials is not cut away.
CNN is cut away because they've got so much time to film.
Certainly.
major consideration for me was that i was only going to use locations that already had appeared in national geographic the head yes they were well covered exotica that i could name as national geographic national geographic in its i have my mother-in-law's collection since 48
has done a heroic job of covering this earth layer upon layer upon layer, era after era, going back to the same places as the epochs change.
I was only using that material.
I would not use something just because I say it's like it's real.
No, I was making sure that it had been covered and covered again.
It's like Kurdistan for when I sent the General Sir Cairo
and not something more, not something that hadn't been covered yet, not a location or a make-believe place.
But this is quite a tech from the Falklands.
Right, right.
I've moved away from... Nobody knew anything about them.
Right.
They were there.
And the reason I used the Falklands was because they're part of the Antarctic protectorate.
I mean, it was really the South Shetlands.
I mean, this is something you find in the books.
But these were techniques that I was going to use for moving the story and making it
making it easy for you to get into and out of, and then the repetition of the Constitution, because that's the civics lesson in here.
But then the presidency itself is developed in a way that when the president does things, your eye knows to read them.
And when things happen in the Oval Office or the White House, your eye knows to read them.
These are dramatic comfort zones for a reader, a crisis.
We are supposed to have ceremonial profundity in this setting.
The trappings of office also include.
That's why I opened with the vice president at Wrigley Field and why he thinks in baseball metaphor.
This is my way of it.
I mean, I made a choice not to use him thinking in war metaphor or football metaphor.
I was attracted to him thinking in baseball metaphor.
It pleased me.
And it pleased me to use...
him thinking in terms of being the pitcher, the starting pitcher.
Just don't leave anything over the plate or that kind of thinking in his own life.
Not because I was condescending towards it, but because I think his genius is to be able to render complicated and sophisticated situations into win or lose, into strike or no strike.
How do you feel about sending this child out?
I think that I, what I really think to myself at that point is, I think of the anecdote of H.C.
Wells in his 80s, in his garden, after five million words in fiction and five million words in non-fiction, mumbling to himself, someday I'll show him, I'm going to write a book, a real book, I'll show him.
That could be the kicker.
I'm always looking for my lead, and I'm always looking for my kicker.
Well, that's what I think of when I write.
How do you feel?
I mean, that's how I feel.
I feel like just H.G.
Wells.
Okay, I'll show those guys.
I'll show them.
They'll be sorry they said no to them.
Another L&P talk author, Alex Stoole.
A madman.
Delightfully madman.
I'm about to say yes again, if you get to.
And in a room.
I really am writing to get through the next four hours.
I mean, to get as far as I can to get to where I see.
Existentially, what it feels like is that you write the sentence to get to the next sentence.
You write the chapter to get to the next chapter.
You write the first sentence to get to the last one, and then if it's finished, it's inadequate, and you're dissatisfied, and it's insufficient.
And I can remember my favorite anecdote of JPB is
When I'd finished him, Dr. Kinn, I had the galleys.
And I was in my garret, and my friend McCafferty was there.
And one afternoon, Sunday afternoon, they were due the next day.
I was a baby writer.
I'd published one book, but this is Alan and I were doing this under duress style.
And I was reading the galleys, just for mistake.
And my friend McCafferty, because I'd just gotten a television, she brought a television that he'd found on the street that worked.
We were watching it in the corner, and there was a cut.
There was an episode of Starsky and Hotshot, which I'd never seen.
A 70s TV show.
And it was some crazy idea where the serial killer would do Shakespeare characters.
And when he did the murders, he would dress the part and make the speeches.
So they were cornering him, and he was doing McVander Hamlet.
And it was just, just idiotic, but farcical television.
But they were playing a dramatic, and I'm reading Antarctica.
Listen to this.
And I absolutely lost it.
I lost it.
I've written Starsky and Hutch.
That's what this is.
That's all I've got here.
I can't publish this.
It won't work.
Nobody will believe it.
Well, I can remember thinking, while writing anything, Father's Day, anything beyond.
This isn't enough.
This is Starsky and Hutch.
I've done it again.
And that's the feeling, that you have to go on and write another book because you didn't get it right.
Because, you know, someday I'll write something that isn't Star Trek Hutch, that doesn't sound to me like lurid television.
Aren't you pleased that I haven't asked the question, which I thought was a little gratuitous, the word piece.
I mean, the suggestion that it's almost, you should apologize for making a buck on a book, you know.
Oh, no, not only do I not apologize, I want to be the number one sellout in the country.
You know, Robert P. Parker was my guest a few years ago, and I had the paper.
I gave a party for my book reviewers, and he came with my name.
You know, people are all constantly asking me.
If, in other words, somebody would say to me, well, in other words, you've gone commercial.
And he said, no, not in other words.
Those are the precise words.
What?
Well, it's interesting to consider that I... I tell the paradox this way.
If I didn't believe this was real, the money, I thought that that was all lies.
That it was just, you know, hype.
So what I now say to myself, and this is the paradox, is that I used to think there was way too much money for way too few people in publishing.
Now,
I think that there's way too much money to put way too big.
Well, I'll tell you, I'm still pretty angry that Random House gave Magic Johnson $5 million, and gave Harlan Brando $5 million, and gave Colin Powell $4 million, and then they had to kick out little guys like, no, I'd only get 15.
I mean, you didn't want to be there.
No, I couldn't be happier than that.
It's not that.
It's that they are in trouble.
They do not.
Random House does not represent good publishing.
Random House has now come to where Doubleday was in the early 80s.
They're where Feynman-Schuster was five years ago.
They are running on empty.
It is a house of cards.
Did you see the books?
I mean, I get the books.
I get the catalogs.
I see everything that they're doing.
It is.
It may not be.
It's on fumes, actually.
I don't even know if it's on empty.
And when it comes, it will be too late, as it always is, as it was for Doubleday, as it was for Simon & Schuster, as well for Morrow, because the chamber for Belgium killed Morrow.
I just want to let it care a lot for Morrow.
Yes.
Well, these are the products of that business.
Except they do like cookbooks.
They get a couple of nice cookbooks.
And it's not as if they give their money to the people who can use it or deserve it or have worked for it or might actually give them another book.
They give their money to people who are already wealthy and it doesn't matter to them and it doesn't have anything to do with books.
I think that in the market terms, what happens is, if I can render it in stock market terms,
What happens at the end is that the excess is the failure.
And that a company that is out of control always, its price goes too high, not too low.
And that is where these companies, I have watched them for 15 years, and Alan and I have always been marginalized.
Now, I thought that that was a negative thing.
It turns out that's safe and secure and extremely traditional to be marginal on American matters.
Because, come the dawn, we're the center.
I remember when Austin O'Neill said to the phone, chatting on the Monday.
Yes.